#summary How to create your own theme for Sweetcron

= Copy the Sandbox Theme =

The best method for creating a new theme is to make a duplicate of the `sandbox` folder inside `system/application/views/themes` and to rename the duplicate to your desired theme name.  Folder names cannot contain spaces.  Once you create a new folder in the themes folder, it becomes available as a selectable theme in the admin panel.  Use your new theme to edit and experiment with.

= Theme Contents =

A theme folder should always contain these components:

{{{
_activity_feed.php //the main activity list of your theme 
_header.php //the header of your site 
_footer.php //the footer of your site 
_sidebar.php //the sidebar of your site 
home.php //the index page of your site
items.php //the item page of your site (search / tag results)
single.php //the single item view page
rss_feed.php //formatting for the rss feed
main.css //the css for your site
}}}

Sweetcron allows for a lot of customisation beyond this.  You can put any files you want into your theme folder and include them like you would using regular php / html in your theme templates.  For example, the sandbox theme also contains an images folder.

= The Item Loop =

View `_activity_feed.php` for an example of the item loop.  For your site's index page and item pages, an `$items` object is provided to the theme templates.  You can use this to loop through available items like so:

{{{
<!-- some html -->
<?php foreach ($items as $item): ?>
<?php echo $item->get_title()?>
<?php endforeach; ?>
<!-- some html -->
}}}

=== For the full API reference detailing what you can do with the $item objects and other variables that are available to theme files, please see the API page. ===
http://code.google.com/p/sweetcron/wiki/API

= Theme FAQ =

== Boxy But Good is showing my XYZ feed as white blog post boxes!!! OMG ==

The Boxy But Good theme comes with only 5 preset "styles" for boxes.  Any item that Boxy But Good doesn't know how to display, it will use a default "white" style.  So you can edit the theme to create more styles if you like...but personally I think the best way to start is from Sandbox...

== Boxy But Good is showing something I don't want to be a photo, as a photo!!1 OMG ==

Read the theme API and learn how to control the theme to display whatever you want, based on simple commands like has_video(), has_image() etc.  By using this API you could do something like this:

if the item comes from twitter...
show a title and a link

if the item comes from flickr...
show the image

if the item comes from OMGOMGOMGOMGOMG.com...
make the background pink and add <blink> tags to the title :D :D :D

if the item comes from youtube...
show an image, then when clicked show the video in a popup

if the item has both an image and a video...
show both!

The possibilities are endless once you learn how to control the API :)